Readme.md, before:

=========================================
ilastik CentOS 6.3 Testing VM Environment
=========================================

The purpose of this box is to provide a compatiable build environment for systems using Enterprise Linux.
This testing VM is modeled after the [ilastik-test-vm][]. There are three major differences.

1. This was designed to run CentOS 6.3 not Ubuntu 12.04.
2. Using this package, the box can be built from scratch.
3. Either an i386 or x86_64 box can be built.

[ilastik-test-vm]: https://github.com/ilastik/ilastik-test-vm


Prerequisites
=============

- Install [VirtualBox][]
- Install [Packer][]
- Install [vagrant][] (You might be able to install vagrant via a package manager like `apt-get`, but make sure you get at least v1.4)
- Install a VNC Client (if you don't have one already)
  * Recommended: Real VNC [VNC Viewer](http://www.realvnc.com/download/viewer)
  * On Mac, a program called "Chicken of the VNC" is not recommended (it seems to drop some key strokes)

[Packer]: http://www.packer.io
[vagrant]: http://www.vagrantup.com
[VirtualBox]: http://www.virtualbox.org


Overview
========

This package provides two main portions.

1. The Packer portion, which contains a JSON file to be given to Packer for building the CentOS 6.3 box and a kickstart file for automatic the OS install.
2. The vagrant portion, which contains the Vagrantfile for provisioning and starting up the VM using the Packer built box.
   * Currently, uses a previously built box, which it links to. In order to use a Packer built box, just comment the existing config.vm.box_url and uncomment the other one.
   * Also, if you wish to build the i386 box, you will need to change the filename used in the Vagrantfile.

Getting started
===============

Download the repo:
------------------

    git clone https://github.com/jakirkham/ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm

Build the box:
--------------

    cd ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm/Packer

    # Pick the build you want.
    packer build -only=CentOS-6.3-x86_64 packer.json               # to build the x86_64 box only
    packer build -only=CentOS-6.3-i386 packer.json                 # to build the i386 box only
    packer build packer.json                                       # to build both boxes

    # The build may hang on a message stating unsupported hardware.
    # Switch to the VM and press <enter> to continue.

Start the VM:
-------------

    cd ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm/Vagrant
    vagrant up                                                     # by default this uses the x86_64 box to use i386 replace the config.vm.box_url with the one below.
                                                                   # config.vm.box_url = "../Packer/builds/CentOS-6.3-i386.box"

    # The machine may warn that Guest Additions may not work due to missing X11. Ignore this.

Running `vagrant up` for the first time will trigger the download of a bare-bones CentOS 6.3 `.box` file (300 MB or so).
After the download is complete, it will be booted and "provisioned".  The provisioning process does the following:

* Uses `apt-get` to install build tools like cmake, git, etc.
* Uses `apt-get` to install ilastik dependencies that BuildEM doesn't provide
* Uses `apt-get` to install java (to allow the VM to be operated as a [Hudson][] slave if desired)
* Installs a script to allow `xvfb` for GUI testing in a virtual frame buffer
* Clones the [ilastik-build-Linux][] repo in `/home/vagrant/ilastik-build`
* Clones the [ilastik_testdata][] repo, which can be used during regression tests
* Writes, but does not execute, a script to build ilastik and all dependencies (`/home/vagrant/build_ilastik.sh`)
* Writes, but does not execute, a script to run all tests in an ilastik build (including lazyflow and volumina unit tests)
* Enables port-forwarding for ssh from host port 9022 to VM port 22
* Specifies how many CPUs to allocate to the VM (4 by default)

After the first boot, the provision script will not be auto-executed during the `vagrant up` process.
If you make changes to it, be sure to run it manually by running `vagrant provision` from the host machine.

[ilastik-build-Linux]: http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik-build-Linux
[ilastik_testdata]: http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik_testdata
[Hudson]: http://hudson-ci.org

Connect to the VM:
------------------

    vagrant ssh

You are now logged in to the VM (user/pass: vagrant/vagrant).  

Activate the virtual display
----------------------------

    ./virtual_display_control.sh start

The above command starts a VNC server on port 5900, which is accessible on port 14900 of your host machine.
On your host machine, use a VNC Client (such as VNC Viewer) to localhost::14900.

Build ilastik
-------------

The script `/home/vagrant/build_ilastik.sh` is provided to checkout BuildEM and build ilastik and all its dependencies.
The build is executed in parallel using `make -j4`, but it will take a long time to complete.

**Note:**  Sometimes the build will fail due to a bad tarball download. (The md5 signature is checked for each dependency.)
If you see the build stop for any reason, just resume it by re-executing `build_ilastik.sh`.

Run ilastik
-----------

Once you've completed the full BuildEM build, ilastik can be executed from the VM:

    # Log in to the VM
    vagrant ssh
    
    # Run ilastik
    ilastik_gui

Run the unit/regression tests
-----------------------------

    vagrant ssh
    ./run_all_ilastik_tests.sh --use-xvfb [--skip-gui-tests]

Recorded GUI regression tests
=============================

One benefit of running ilastik from a virtual machine is that you can create GUI-based test cases to *share* with other developers.

Record a new test
-----------------

First, make sure you've activated the virtual display (see above), and connected to it with a VNC Viewer from your host machine.
To record an ilastik gui test case, use the `--start_recording` option:

    ilastik_gui --start_recording

Add comments to the test as you go, so it's easy to see what you were doing if the test case starts to fail in the future.
For test data to use with your test case, look in the VM's `/tmp/test_data` directory.
When you are finished, save your test somewhere in the `ilastik/tests/recorded_test_cases` directory.

To play back your test case, use the `--playback_script` parameter:

    ilatik_gui --playback_script=ilastik/tests/recorded_test_cases/my_recording.py

To include your new test case in the ilastik regression test suite, be sure to `commit` and `push` it back up to the main ilastik repo!
If your test case exhibits a bug in ilastik that you want to share with the development team, you can open an issue in the ilastik [github issue tracker](http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik/issues).
Instead of pasting your recording directly into a github issue, use [pastebin.com] or [gist.github.com] and link to your recording in the issue text.

Recording tips
--------------

Explain what you're doing using using the comments box in the recorder UI.
It will be much easier to see what's going wrong when your test case fails some day.

Don't interfere with tests during playback.  Stray mouse movements, etc. can still affect the app during playback.

Avoid relying on details that may not be consistent between test runs.
For example, it is usually best to select your test data by typing the path into the file browser dialog (don't use the mouse).
If the playback environment's file browser doesn't start in the same directory you started in when you recorded the test, 
then your mouse clicks won't mean the same thing!

The recording system relies on `QObject.objectName()` to locate widgets within the widget hierarchy.
For the most part, you don't need to know or worry about the details here.
However, you must make sure that any top-level widgets you create (e.g. custom dialogs) have unique names.
If you fail to do this, you may have trouble playing back test cases involving your dialog.

For example:

    class MyDialog(QDialog):
        def __init__(parent):
            QDialog.__init__(parent, objectName="MyUniqueName")

Suspending the VM
=================

To pause the virtual machine, log out of your ssh session and type

    vagrant suspend

To bring the VM back to life,

    vagrant resume

To shut down the VM, use

    vagrant halt -f       # Vagrant does not use sudo as required for the shutdown command. So, force is required.

To start it up again, use

    vagrant up            # May have an error message. Ignore this and proceed to ssh.

To ensure that you are using the latest version of ilastik, lazyflow, and volumina without power-cycling the VM, you can re-provision it with

    vagrant provision

**Note:** When you *first create* your VM, `vagrant provision` checks out the build system and a default version of ilastik.
On subsequent calls to `vagrant provision`, ilastik is not updated.  To update the ilastik source manually, see the git repo 
(and submodules) in `/home/vagrant/ilastik-build/src/ilastik`.

Finally, to delete your VM entirely and start from scratch, type

    vagrant destroy

Commit message:

Readme.md: Add note strongly recommending vagrant v1.7 due to issue with CentOS.

Readme.md, after:

=========================================
ilastik CentOS 6.3 Testing VM Environment
=========================================

The purpose of this box is to provide a compatiable build environment for systems using Enterprise Linux.
This testing VM is modeled after the [ilastik-test-vm][]. There are three major differences.

1. This was designed to run CentOS 6.3 not Ubuntu 12.04.
2. Using this package, the box can be built from scratch.
3. Either an i386 or x86_64 box can be built.

[ilastik-test-vm]: https://github.com/ilastik/ilastik-test-vm


Prerequisites
=============

- Install [VirtualBox][]
- Install [Packer][]
- Install [vagrant][] (You might be able to install vagrant via a package manager like `apt-get`, but make sure you get at least v1.4)
  * However, until vagrant 1.7 there is a persistent bug where it is unable to shutdown properly and guest additions will not work after the initial provisioning.
    It is recommended that you use v1.7. If this is not possible, you *can* use a lower version, but proceed with caution. Shutdown may require force.
- Install a VNC Client (if you don't have one already)
  * Recommended: Real VNC [VNC Viewer](http://www.realvnc.com/download/viewer)
  * On Mac, a program called "Chicken of the VNC" is not recommended (it seems to drop some key strokes)

[Packer]: http://www.packer.io
[vagrant]: http://www.vagrantup.com
[VirtualBox]: http://www.virtualbox.org


Overview
========

This package provides two main portions.

1. The Packer portion, which contains a JSON file to be given to Packer for building the CentOS 6.3 box and a kickstart file for automatic the OS install.
2. The vagrant portion, which contains the Vagrantfile for provisioning and starting up the VM using the Packer built box.
   * Currently, uses a previously built box, which it links to. In order to use a Packer built box, just comment the existing config.vm.box_url and uncomment the other one.
   * Also, if you wish to build the i386 box, you will need to change the filename used in the Vagrantfile.

Getting started
===============

Download the repo:
------------------

    git clone https://github.com/jakirkham/ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm

Build the box:
--------------

    cd ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm/Packer

    # Pick the build you want.
    packer build -only=CentOS-6.3-x86_64 packer.json               # to build the x86_64 box only
    packer build -only=CentOS-6.3-i386 packer.json                 # to build the i386 box only
    packer build packer.json                                       # to build both boxes

    # The build may hang on a message stating unsupported hardware.
    # Switch to the VM and press <enter> to continue.

Start the VM:
-------------

    cd ilastik-centos_6_3-test-vm/Vagrant
    vagrant up                                                     # by default this uses the x86_64 box to use i386 replace the config.vm.box_url with the one below.
                                                                   # config.vm.box_url = "../Packer/builds/CentOS-6.3-i386.box"

    # The machine may warn that Guest Additions may not work due to missing X11. Ignore this.

Running `vagrant up` for the first time will trigger the download of a bare-bones CentOS 6.3 `.box` file (300 MB or so).
After the download is complete, it will be booted and "provisioned".  The provisioning process does the following:

* Uses `apt-get` to install build tools like cmake, git, etc.
* Uses `apt-get` to install ilastik dependencies that BuildEM doesn't provide
* Uses `apt-get` to install java (to allow the VM to be operated as a [Hudson][] slave if desired)
* Installs a script to allow `xvfb` for GUI testing in a virtual frame buffer
* Clones the [ilastik-build-Linux][] repo in `/home/vagrant/ilastik-build`
* Clones the [ilastik_testdata][] repo, which can be used during regression tests
* Writes, but does not execute, a script to build ilastik and all dependencies (`/home/vagrant/build_ilastik.sh`)
* Writes, but does not execute, a script to run all tests in an ilastik build (including lazyflow and volumina unit tests)
* Enables port-forwarding for ssh from host port 9022 to VM port 22
* Specifies how many CPUs to allocate to the VM (4 by default)

After the first boot, the provision script will not be auto-executed during the `vagrant up` process.
If you make changes to it, be sure to run it manually by running `vagrant provision` from the host machine.

[ilastik-build-Linux]: http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik-build-Linux
[ilastik_testdata]: http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik_testdata
[Hudson]: http://hudson-ci.org

Connect to the VM:
------------------

    vagrant ssh

You are now logged in to the VM (user/pass: vagrant/vagrant).  

Activate the virtual display
----------------------------

    ./virtual_display_control.sh start

The above command starts a VNC server on port 5900, which is accessible on port 14900 of your host machine.
On your host machine, use a VNC Client (such as VNC Viewer) to localhost::14900.

Build ilastik
-------------

The script `/home/vagrant/build_ilastik.sh` is provided to checkout BuildEM and build ilastik and all its dependencies.
The build is executed in parallel using `make -j4`, but it will take a long time to complete.

**Note:**  Sometimes the build will fail due to a bad tarball download. (The md5 signature is checked for each dependency.)
If you see the build stop for any reason, just resume it by re-executing `build_ilastik.sh`.

Run ilastik
-----------

Once you've completed the full BuildEM build, ilastik can be executed from the VM:

    # Log in to the VM
    vagrant ssh
    
    # Run ilastik
    ilastik_gui

Run the unit/regression tests
-----------------------------

    vagrant ssh
    ./run_all_ilastik_tests.sh --use-xvfb [--skip-gui-tests]

Recorded GUI regression tests
=============================

One benefit of running ilastik from a virtual machine is that you can create GUI-based test cases to *share* with other developers.

Record a new test
-----------------

First, make sure you've activated the virtual display (see above), and connected to it with a VNC Viewer from your host machine.
To record an ilastik gui test case, use the `--start_recording` option:

    ilastik_gui --start_recording

Add comments to the test as you go, so it's easy to see what you were doing if the test case starts to fail in the future.
For test data to use with your test case, look in the VM's `/tmp/test_data` directory.
When you are finished, save your test somewhere in the `ilastik/tests/recorded_test_cases` directory.

To play back your test case, use the `--playback_script` parameter:

    ilatik_gui --playback_script=ilastik/tests/recorded_test_cases/my_recording.py

To include your new test case in the ilastik regression test suite, be sure to `commit` and `push` it back up to the main ilastik repo!
If your test case exhibits a bug in ilastik that you want to share with the development team, you can open an issue in the ilastik [github issue tracker](http://github.com/ilastik/ilastik/issues).
Instead of pasting your recording directly into a github issue, use [pastebin.com] or [gist.github.com] and link to your recording in the issue text.

Recording tips
--------------

Explain what you're doing using using the comments box in the recorder UI.
It will be much easier to see what's going wrong when your test case fails some day.

Don't interfere with tests during playback.  Stray mouse movements, etc. can still affect the app during playback.

Avoid relying on details that may not be consistent between test runs.
For example, it is usually best to select your test data by typing the path into the file browser dialog (don't use the mouse).
If the playback environment's file browser doesn't start in the same directory you started in when you recorded the test, 
then your mouse clicks won't mean the same thing!

The recording system relies on `QObject.objectName()` to locate widgets within the widget hierarchy.
For the most part, you don't need to know or worry about the details here.
However, you must make sure that any top-level widgets you create (e.g. custom dialogs) have unique names.
If you fail to do this, you may have trouble playing back test cases involving your dialog.

For example:

    class MyDialog(QDialog):
        def __init__(parent):
            QDialog.__init__(parent, objectName="MyUniqueName")

Suspending the VM
=================

To pause the virtual machine, log out of your ssh session and type

    vagrant suspend

To bring the VM back to life,

    vagrant resume

To shut down the VM, use

    vagrant halt

To start it up again, use

    vagrant up            # May have an error message. Ignore this and proceed to ssh.

To ensure that you are using the latest version of ilastik, lazyflow, and volumina without power-cycling the VM, you can re-provision it with

    vagrant provision

**Note:** When you *first create* your VM, `vagrant provision` checks out the build system and a default version of ilastik.
On subsequent calls to `vagrant provision`, ilastik is not updated.  To update the ilastik source manually, see the git repo 
(and submodules) in `/home/vagrant/ilastik-build/src/ilastik`.

Finally, to delete your VM entirely and start from scratch, type

    vagrant destroy
